Submission Preparation Checklist


As part of the submission process, authors are required to check off their 
submission's compliance with all of the following items, and submissions may 
be returned to authors that do not adhere to these guidelines:

	- The submission has not been previously published nor it is being 
			considered for publication on a different journal
	- The submission file is a PDF document, containing the full text, 
			author(s) name(s) and affiliation(s), and references.
	- The authors comply with the journal's Ethical Guidelines.
	- The manuscript adheres to the stylistic and bibliographic requirements 
			outlined in the Author Guidelines.
	- LaTeX (.tex) source files and figures (eventually, other source files 
			like Word .docx) are also included.



Author Guidelines


Manuscripts submitted to Papers in Physics must contain substantial new results
and ideas that advance in a non-trivial way our knowledge of physics.

Authors must decide at submission time the editorial treatment that 
Papers in Physics should give to the manuscript: traditional review or open 
review. Authors must ensure that any submission has not been previously 
published, nor is it before another journal for consideration.

Papers in Physics has no page limits. However, very long manuscripts are 
susceptible of higher publishing costs (see APC).  Authors are encouraged to 
publish supplementary material at no extra cost.

Papers in Physics has a copyleft policy. Authors must agree to let the article 
in the public domain (CC BY 4.0 license). Authors must comply with the journal 
ethical guidelines.



EDITORIAL TREATMENTS


Traditional review

In traditional review, manuscripts are submitted to anonymous reviewers seeking 
constructive criticism and editors make a decision as to whether publication 
is appropriate.

Open review

In open review, manuscripts are sent to reviewers who agree to unveil their 
identity. If the paper is considered suitable for publication, the names of all
involved will be published in the article information.  The the reviewer's 
comments and the author's replies may be also published together with the main 
article when considered valuable for the readers according to the editor in 
charge of the manuscript. In this way, Papers in Physics promotes open 
discussions of controversies among specialists that are of help to the reader 
and to the transparency of the editorial process. Moreover, reviewers receive 
their due recognition by publishing a recorded citable report.



MANUSCRIPT PREPARATION


Please, use the LaTeX class and template provided to prepare your manuscript.
Microsoft Word, OpenOffice and other formats may be processed. However, note 
that in this case extra cost associated with formatting will be charged to the 
author prior to  publication (see APC).

Language: Manuscripts must be written in English following American spelling.

Title: It must be informative and brief.

Authors: Use full given names or capital initials followed by periods. Family 
	name must be written in full. Separate authors' names by commas only.

Address: Provide postal address for each author. Use Arabic superscripts to 
	link authors to addresses.

Abstract: Aim at less than 500 words. Clearly indicate the system under 
	consideration, the properties studied, the methods used and the main 
	conclusions drawn in the paper.

Text: Separate the text in sections beginning by "Introduction" and ending 
	with "Conclusions".

Figures: Use PostScript, PDF or EPS format for images. The use of color is 
	encouraged. Introduce appropriate captions for each figure.

Tables: Avoid introducing large tables; these can be submitted as 
	Supplementary Material.

Equations: Equations must be numbered sequentially.

Acknowledgements: Acknowledgements to individuals and institutions must be 
	given just before the first Appendix or the References.

Appendices: Introduce as appendix any detailed material that may divert 
	attention to the main subject in the text.

References: Citations must appear numbered sequentially and in squared brackets,
	e.g. [2] in the text. The list of references should be placed at the end of
	the manuscript and contain complete information about the cited items.



Supplementary material


Papers in Physics encourages authors to submit supplementary material for the 
benefit of reviewers and readers. These may include images, videos, lengthy 
tables, source codes, lengthy details of experiments, calculations or protocols, 
etc. Supplementary material is subjected to the same licensing as the manuscript 
if published.

ONLINE SUBMISSION

	- Prepare a PDF version of your article to submit for reviewing. This file 
			must contain the full text, references, figures, tables, and any 
			other material intended to be part of the final published article.
	- Prepare the LaTeX sorces and figures (packed in a single .zip or .tar.gz 
			file) and any other supplementary material, to be uploaded as 
			"supplementary files". Microsoft Word, OpenOffice, and other 
			formats may be processed, but notice that the costs of format 
			conversion will be charged to the authors.
	- Detail in your cover letter the contribution made by each author of the 
			manuscript. This is important to help the Editors in overseeing 
			compliance with the journal ethical guidelines.
	- Include in your cover letter a list of colleagues that you believe are 
			suitable as reviewers of your manuscript. Please, include as many 
			as possible and provide: full names, affiliations and 
			email addresses.
	- When entering title and abstract in the submission process use LaTeX 
			commands for special symbols and formulas, e.g., √2.



Sample of cover letter


	Dear Editor,

	Please, consider the following when handling this submission.

	Contributions:
	Authors A and B designed and performed the experiment, Author C developed 
	the theoretical calculations, Author D performed the statistical analysis, 
	all authors contributted equaly to the preparation of the manuscript.

	Suitable reviewers:
	Dr. Andrew Smith, University of Physics (Amsterdam, The Netherlands), 
		aasmith@uop.edu.nl
	Prof. Bry Chan, Physics Institute (Colorado, USA), bbchan@picol.edu



POST EDITION


After acceptance, manuscripts are reviewed by our Copyeditors for English and 
style correctness. A correction marked ("redline") copyedited manuscript is 
sent to the corresponding author for approval. Later on, proof are processed 
and authors are invited to reply withing 48 hours (only typo corrections are 
accepted upon proofs).



Copyright Notice
Authors agree to the PIP Copyleft Notice

Privacy Statement
The names and email addresses entered in this journal site will be used 
exclusively for the stated purposes of this journal and will not be made 
available for any other purpose or to any other party.
